README.md, before:



# Evaluation code for: Complex Observations for Plan Recognition as Planning

This program is meant to compare pr2plan (Ramirez and Geffner, 2009) 
against pr2plan_complex (Nelson and Cardona-Rivera, 2019) It requires several executables be moved to this directory. 
Each of these executables relies on an FF parser, for which bison and flex are required. See the [FF website](https://fai.cs.uni-saarland.de/hoffmann/ff.html) 
for more info. Macs should be able to use [brew](https://brew.sh) for an easy install. (`brew install bison`)

### pr2plan
See obs-compiler.tar.bz2 found [here](https://sites.google.com/site/prasplanning/file-cabinet) for download. 
Compile with `cd mod-metric-ff; make libff; cd ..; make all`, and work as best you can through any bugs. It may help 
to comment out the STATIC line in the Makefile, as some systems (including Mac) don't like it. When compiled,
 copy the executable 'pr2plan' to this directory. If `make libff` gives you trouble here, likely it will give you the 
 same trouble in pr2plan_complex and LAPKT, so take notes of how you fix issues.

### pr2plan_complex
See [here](https://github.com/qed-lab/Complex-Observation-Compiler) for download. Compile with 
`cd mod-metric-ff; make libff; cd ..; make all`. When compiled, copy the executable 'pr2plan' to this directory.
 _Please_ report bugs and compilation issues to its repository.

### Compiling the planner (with tracer)
 - Download [LAPKT](http://lapkt.org/index.php?title=Download), and set it up. (LAPKT should have resources. You'll need boost.) 
    - Make sure to set up LAPKT's FF parser in 'external/libff', as in [these](http://lapkt.org/index.php?title=GettingStarted)
     instructions. If it has issues finding '/usr/include/<anything>' you may have to remove the explicit paths from 
     the bottom. Regex in an IDE works best there.
 
 - Make sure you can use the `scons` command. Brew, or `sudo apt-get` is your friend here, or else look [here](https://scons.org).

- In the planner-tracer directory, open the 'SConstruct' file and update `LAPKT_DIR=`. This can be a relative filepath.

    - You may also have to update 'include_paths' and 'lib_paths' if you have a nonstandard boost installation.

- `scons`

- `mv planner ../planner`


> Alternatively, you could substitute your own planner and replace the 'run-wa-planner' function with your own interface. 
Make sure this planner also outputs the plan trace to a file. The format uses newlines to separate states, and commas to separate the fluents in a state.


### Running the evaluation:
To run the evaluation run `harness.py`. By default this runs a (lengthy) evaluation on the problems in 
`Benchmark_Problems`, and reports the results in both a text table and latex-ready table. This is a long process,
 so feel free to pare down the settings. Just make sure those settings match the .obs files available. (Or generate your own .obs files)

Commit message:

Add complex observation compiler as a folder
The real repo is elsewhere, but this makes compiling from a single repo easier. It's also a sort of record--this is the version used for THIS evaluation.

README.md, after:



# Evaluation code for: Complex Observations for Plan Recognition as Planning

This program is meant to compare pr2plan (Ramirez and Geffner, 2009) 
against pr2plan_complex (Nelson and Cardona-Rivera, 2019) It requires several executables be moved to this directory. 
Each of these executables relies on an FF parser, for which bison and flex are required. See the [FF website](https://fai.cs.uni-saarland.de/hoffmann/ff.html) 
for more info. Macs should be able to use [brew](https://brew.sh) for an easy install. (`brew install bison`)

### pr2plan
See obs-compiler.tar.bz2 found [here](https://sites.google.com/site/prasplanning/file-cabinet) for download. 
Compile with `cd mod-metric-ff; make libff; cd ..; make all`, and work as best you can through any bugs. It may help 
to comment out the STATIC line in the Makefile, as some systems (including Mac) don't like it. When compiled,
 copy the executable 'pr2plan' to this directory. If `make libff` gives you trouble here, likely it will give you the 
 same trouble in pr2plan_complex and LAPKT, so take notes of how you fix issues.

### pr2plan_complex
See the complex_observation_compiler folder. Compile with 
`cd mod-metric-ff; make libff; cd ..; make all`. When compiled, copy the executable 'pr2plan' to this directory.
 _Please_ report bugs and compilation issues to its repository [here](https://github.com/qed-lab/Complex-Observation-Compiler).

### Compiling the planner (with tracer)
 - Download [LAPKT](http://lapkt.org/index.php?title=Download), and set it up. (LAPKT should have resources. You'll need boost.) 
    - Make sure to set up LAPKT's FF parser in 'external/libff', as in [these](http://lapkt.org/index.php?title=GettingStarted)
     instructions. If it has issues finding '/usr/include/<anything>' you may have to remove the explicit paths from 
     the bottom. Regex in an IDE works best there.
 
 - Make sure you can use the `scons` command. Brew, or `sudo apt-get` is your friend here, or else look [here](https://scons.org).

- In the planner-tracer directory, open the 'SConstruct' file and update `LAPKT_DIR=`. This can be a relative filepath.

    - You may also have to update 'include_paths' and 'lib_paths' if you have a nonstandard boost installation.

- `scons`

- `mv planner ../planner`


> Alternatively, you could substitute your own planner and replace the 'run-wa-planner' function with your own interface. 
Make sure this planner also outputs the plan trace to a file. The format uses newlines to separate states, and commas to separate the fluents in a state.


### Running the evaluation:
To run the evaluation run `harness.py`. By default this runs a (lengthy) evaluation on the problems in 
`Benchmark_Problems`, and reports the results in both a text table and latex-ready table. This is a long process,
 so feel free to pare down the settings. Just make sure those settings match the .obs files available. (Or generate your own .obs files)
